All right let's get that final result of the simulation.
Basically everything is ready but we would just like of course to print that final outcome which is
the energy saved.
And I'm going to put it in capital letters because this is what we're all waiting for.
So in that fine print.
Well you know let's again do it efficiently.
I'm going to copy this line and paste it here because basically I'm going to use the same format trick
which basically makes the whole thing have the same structure.
All right so first of all what are we going to print.
Not total energy spent with an eye but.
And I'm going to write them capital letters.
The energy saved.
Very simply.
All right the energy saved.
The final outcome which we would like to get over 50 percent.
Then what about inside these brackets here.
Remember that's the format of the value you want to print.
And you know the energy saved is going to be a percentage.
So it's going to be for example that say hopefully 51 percent and therefore you know we don't want any
decimals for percentage so we're going to keep that exact same format.
That is a float.
You know it will still be a float.
It will be a result of a float condition of course but with zero decimal.
OK.
So perfect for the format.
And then inside this format function well of course it is not going to be the all energy spent by the
A.I. onto the server but it is going to be the energy saved by the AI with respect to the service alternative
cooling system and the way to get it is to compute a relative difference between the two energy spent.
The first one by the way and the second one by the surveyors alternative system and well we already
have these two energies.
This is energy spent by the AI.
The total energy spent over the full year of simulation and this is it all energy spent by the service
alternative cooling system that is the total energy spent when we have no AI still over that same one
year of simulation and mostly over the same simulation with the same fluctuations of the core temperature
of the server evolving along the same fluctuations of the number of users in the server and the rate
of data transmission.
So it's very important to remind that.
So that what we're about to compute makes total sense.
Okay.
So therefore what is going to be the formula.
Well that's very simple.
You know the relative difference is just the total energy spent when we have no AI minus.
It's all energy spent when we have the AI and all these divided of course by the total energy spent
when we have no AI and therefore here I'm going to add some new parenthesis right here because I'm going
to divide the difference by the baseline which is the total energy spent when we have no AI.
Therefore I'm going to face that.
Yes that's the one that's the last one I copied.
This is the baseline.
So see the formula the energy saved by the AI with respect to the base line which is our service alternative
cooling system is the difference between the energy spent by that alternative cooling system minus the
energy spent by the AI divided by it's all energy spent.
My sisters are of cooling system.
Right.
Classic formula of a relative difference and now Leslie since you want a percentage.
Well we have to multiply the whole thing by 100.
So that indeed we can get a percentage instead of zero point something you know if the final result
is 51 percent.
Well we have to multiply this by 100 to get indeed 51 percent and that 0.50 1.
And speaking about percentage what we can actually do you know after the print of the final result which
will happen here.
Well we can add in the percentage specified that it's the relative energy saved and percentage again
now while everything is done congratulations you are at the end of this huge tunnel.
We've all been together you know this was a huge implementation in five bytes and fous.
And you did it.
You are at the very end about to see the light.
Well let's hope we're going to see the light because indeed we're hoping to get more than 50 percent
in energy savings.
That's our goal.
And so without waiting we're going to execute the whole thing.
I'm going to say first and now here we go.
I just selected everything.
And the final result is well we're going to have to deal with some more suspense because indeed we're
running the simulation over one full year.
Therefore there is going to be 12 times 30 times 24 times 60 times that's because that's the number
of minutes in one year.
So it's totally normal that it's taking a little bit of time but we should see the result in any second
now.
And if you want I'm going to put some music until we get the results.
And we did it.
We obtained the total energy saved by the AI is 54 percent.
Mission accomplished.
So congratulations.
That's amazing.
Not only you completed a huge implementation but also you managed to reduce significantly the cost in
that server and therefore the whole data center.
Because thanks to our object oriented implementation Well we can repeat that very easily for all the
other servers of the data center.
Therefore reducing and minimizing the total costs in energy consumption of the whole data center.
So that's a great accomplishment and I hope you enjoyed not only the result but everything we've done.
So now we're going to move on to the homework which will consist of reducing even more costs and energy
consumption because this homework will be about implementing what we got early stopping which will allow
you to train your model faster and therefore a lower number of epochs.
And why does that minimize the cost even more.
Well that's because you know artificial intelligence is actually quite costly for companies.
Companies spend a lot of resources including of course a lot of money on the training of their algorithm.
So they need EARLY START BEING to optimize that training time therefore saving up a lot of the resources
including the service they use and the energy consumed during all these trainings.
So that's exactly what we'll do.
But it's final homework and decide you will have the early stopping technique in your toolkit which
is a must have technique that you absolutely need to know about.
So let's tackle this next Statoil.
Congratulations again for the 54 percent.
And until then enjoy AI.